
## Faithful pals and familiar locales: social and spatial site fidelity during reproduction

- Authors:
  - Jack G. Hendrix
  - [Alec L. Robitaille](http://robitalec.ca/)
  - Jillian M. Kusch
  - [Quinn M.R. Webber](https://qwebber.weebly.com/)
  - [Eric Vander Wal](https://weel.gitlab.io/)

This repository contains the code accompanying the paper “Faithful pals
and familiar locales: social and spatial site fidelity during
reproduction”. This project is structured using the {targets} package,
see `_targets.R` for the full workflow. All other package dependencies
are listed under `R/packages.R`.

### Abstract

Site fidelity – the tendency to reuse familiar spaces – tends to improve
fitness. Familiarity with the local environment is particularly crucial
when resource acquisition or predation risk are high. Consequently, site
fidelity often fluctuates in time, peaking at reproduction when
energetic costs are high and offspring are most vulnerable. For many
species, the environment they experience is not solely a function of
geography, but also of the social environment. Social fidelity could
constitute an alternate or parallel strategy to spatial fidelity when
considering behaviour at the spatial-social interface. By incorporating
sociality into the site fidelity framework, we described a form of
social fidelity during reproduction. Using GPS locations from caribou
across the island of Newfoundland, we tested whether females selected
calving sites based on proximity to familiar conspecifics, in addition
to geographic (spatial) fidelity. We found that these strategies are
synergistic, not alternative, and correlated within individuals. We also
tested whether fidelity was adaptive in this population, but failed to
detect an effect of spatial or social fidelity on calf survival. Given
the association between social and spatial fidelity, the importance of
familiar conspecifics and the potential fitness benefits these social
partners provide may be an underappreciated component driving site
fidelity.
